---
layout: post
title: Why I Chose the Software Developer Track
---

I am lucky because I have family and friends that work in the tech industry. They are the ones that encouraged me to pursue a career in IT. And they are the ones that helped me choose a track. Ultimately, it was my decision but it always helps getting second opinions. I am more of a creative person so at first I had decided to do the designer track. But, after taking their opinions and doing some research on the current job market I asked myself, after I finish the designer track what are my chances of getting a job in the bay area? Here is the bay area the competition in fierce and when I apply for jobs down the line I will have to compete with Stanford and Berkley grads among others. Even if I work hard and become as good as my competitors will I get a job without a degree? I also noticed there are more opportunities out there for web developers than for designers. So I thought, well my chances of getting a job are higher if there are more jobs for web developers. But, even that wasn’t enough for me. I am one of those people that feel the need to know a little bit of everything. Therefore, I ended up choosing the software developer track because I would not only learn front-end and back-end web development but also learn about the principles of software engineering. I know that the small amount of engineering that I will learn in this course is not going to be nearly enough. But, that’s okay, the point is I am trying to learn as much as I can and that will make me more confident job applicant. 