---
layout: post
title: My Experience at Bloc Thus Far
---

It’s been two months since I started the software developer track. Before I started the program I was warned by family, friends and even my mentor that it’s going to be tough. That there will be times when you will doubt your decision to do the program or even your ability to learn this material. So when I finally started the program and flew through the first part of the course relatively sane I thought to myself what are these people talking about? It’s not that bad. Boy was I wrong because now I am officially insane and it’s only been two months. Okay I am exaggerating somewhat but yes it is tough. I start my day at 8 in the morning and I don’t stop till I go to bed. I am sure that there are super intelligent people out there that find these courses to be simple, I am not one of them.  I always thought that I pay great attention to detail, but turns out I don’t. I can’t tell you the number of hours I have wasted in a day because I had a typo or I left out a semicolon in the code. Luckily, I have a great mentor that always spots my mistakes and helps me fix them. But still it can get frustrating. There are times when I read the same sentence over and over again and I have no idea what they are talking about. And like they all predicted, I do question my decision and I do wonder whether I will be a good software developer. But, the great thing about being a software developer is learning from your mistakes. Surprisingly the more mistakes you make the more you learn. At the end of two months am I able to write large pieces of code on my own? No way. Sometimes I don’t even know where to begin because I don’t even remember some of the material that I learned in the beginning of the course. That’s the tradeoff of doing boot camp programs, you don’t have much time to absorb and practice the material before you move on to a new topic. It really does frustrate me at times, but I am learning to accept it.  When I am stuck I go online and look things up, I ask my mentor or my cousin to help me out. It’s important to realize that I am not expected to memorize everything and it’s ok to get help writing the code.  I have to believe that with time and practice I will get better at this. 